
                                                                           SOFTWARE ENGINEERING

Objective
The world cannot operate without software. Industries are controlled by software systems, as the functioning of financial systems, scientific labs, infrastructures and utilities, games,
 film, television, and so on depend on it. A software is a computer program along with the associated documents and the configuration data that make these programs operate correctly.

Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is applied to the development of software in a systematic approach (called a software process).
It is the application of theories, methods, and tools to design build a software that meets the specifications efficiently, cost-effectively, and ensuring quality.


It is not only concerned with the technical process of building a software, it also includes activities to manage the project, develop tools, methods and theories 
that support the software production. Different methods and techniques of software engineering are appropriate for different types of systems. For example, games should be developed 
using series of prototypes, while critical control systems require a complete analyzable specification to be developed.

Software Engineers
The job of a software engineer is difficult. It has to maintain balance between different people involved, such as:

Dealing with users:
Users don’t know what to expect exactly from the software. The concern is always about the ease of use and response time.

Dealing with technical people:
Developers are more technically inclined people so they think more of database terms, Design and functionality, etc.

Dealing with management:
They are concerned withreturn on their
investment, and meeting the schedule.


                                                                Diploma of Associate Engineering in Computer Information Technology 

Objective
Information Technology has become the lifeline of modern world. We are now living in a global village largely because of this technology. All organizations, big or small, 
have either been already computerized or making hurried efforts to fully computerize themselves. Computer with Internet is now a household appliance.

The firms that deal in computer hardware and software are among the richest in the world. The job market in computer related work has been fast expanding.

In Pakistan, tremendous efforts are being made, both in the public as well as in private sectors, to expedite the Computer Information Technology revolution.

The scheme of studies includes general introduction to computer hardware, software and their applications in daily life. Emphasis is given to the development of software techniques
 both in procedural and non-procedural languages & tools including Microprocessor design and architecture, data communication and networking, webpage designing, PC configuration & 
its applications etc.


A lot of job opportunities in the field of information technology, do exist for Associate Engineers of Computer Information Technology and these job opportunities will keep on expanding 
in a big way in future as well.



                                                                Diploma of Associate Engineering in Civil Technology

Objective
Civil Engineering is the design and fabrication of structures for improving the way we live and work and for enabling rapid, safe and high-volume transportation. Examples include buildings, roads, railways, airports, bridges, canals, dams, sky scrapers and factories.
Modern Civil Engineering often places a focus on aesthetic considerations and environmental impact.

Civil Engineering is the second oldest engineering discipline after military engineering & it is defined as non-military engineering. It takes place in the public sector from municipal 
through to national governments and in the private sector from individual home owners through to international companies.

We offer diploma of Associate Engineer in Civil and the length of study is three years. The curriculum includes the courses of Surveying, construction, civil drafting, mechanics of structures,
 project management, concrete technology, soil mechanics, roads, bridges, docks, harbors, highways, ralways, airports, hydraulics and irrigation etc.

 
Job opportunities for Associate Engineers, trained in Civil are available in government departments, private and public sector industries, research and teaching institutions in areas such as
road projects, building works, consultancy firms, quality testing laboratories, Dam constructing companies, housing societies etc. Employment opportunities are increasing rapidly as more 
and more investment is forthcoming in these fields.Recently announced Naya Pakistan Housing scheme will open flood gates of jobs in the construction industry.



                                                            Diploma of Associate Engineering in Electrical Technology

Objective
Three Years Diploma of Associate Engineer Programme is aimed to provide basic preparation for a career in the broad discipline of Electrical Technology.

It prepares & enhances the opportunities for students for career in such fields as Research and Development, Designing & Manufacturing, Technical Sales & Product Support and
 Undergraduate Studies in Electrical Engineering.

After completing DAE in Electrical Technology, one can handle operation of multi-megawatt power generating stations and other huge plants.

The scheme of studies covers constructional and operational details of all types of electric motors, generators and convertors available in industrial units.
 Planning, installation, operation and maintenance of AC & DC machines, batteries and domestic appliances are also the part of the scheme of studies. 
Strong emphasis is placed in “hands-on” practice during the course. To achieve this, we have established such laboratories as

Electrical Power & Machine Lab.
Electrical Wiring & Soldering Lab.
Electrical Repair & Maintenance Lab equipment.
Basic Electricity & Basic Electronics Lab having State-of-the-art training facilities.

A lot of job opportunities exist both in public and private sector organizations for the Associate Engineers trained in Electrical Technology, 
in such areas as Production, Installation, Operation, Maintenance, and Sales & Service of electrical equipment, devices & gadgets.

          
                                                                  Diploma of Associate Engineering in Electronics Technology

Objective
This is the age of Electronics. Radio, TV, Computer, Telecommunication devices, etc. These have now become the life and blood of modern civilization. 

Even, such a sophisticated device known as microprocessor is finding its way in household appliances. This technology has entered into trade, commerce, industry and almost every office and home.

Education and training in Electronics has, therefore, been introduced in a big way in almost every country of the world.

Pakistan could not afford to be left behind in this very important field and has started education and training in Electronics at different levels.


The objective of the Diploma level education in Electronics is to fill the gap between university graduate engineers and the skilled workers trained at the Technical Training Centers.
The scheme of studies includes, among other things, subjects like Electrical & Electronics networks, Motors & Generators, Radio Transmitters & Receivers, T.V.
Circuits & Systems, Industrial Electronics, Microprocessors & Micro-Computers, Telecommunication Systems covering such aspects as F.M. Links, Fiber Optics, Satellite Communication,
 Micro- wave, Radar etc.

A lot of job opportunities exist both in public and private sector organizations for the Associate Engineers, trained in Electronics in such areas as Production,
 Maintenance and Sales & Service of Electronic devices and gadgets.

More and more jobs will be available in this industry as the Govt has recently allowed the companies to manufacture mobile sets for local consumption as well as export.




                                                         Diploma of Associate Engineering in Mechanical Technology
Objective
Mechanical Technology is the backbone of all technologies. Mechanical Technology plays vital role in almost every field of life ranging from power generation to health care
The main objective of starting this program is to produce technologists of mechanical technology to address the full range of technical and societal problems with creativity, imagination, 
confidence and responsibility. So that these technologies serve as ambassadors for technology by exhibiting the highest ethical and professional standards, and by communicating 
the importance and excitement of this dynamic field.

Mechanical Technology is in line with the requirement of industries. Students after completing DAE in Mechanical Technology may 
work independently to research, ddesign and develop machinery, systems and products for various industry applications including heating, ventilating, air conditioning, power generation,
transportation, manufacturing, waste management, or biomechanics. They would also evaluate and manage the installation, operation and maintenance of mechanical systems.


The scheme of studies includes knowledge of computer integrated Manufacturing with configurations of CAD, CAM & ROBOTICS, types of lathes, drilling machines,
tool grinders, shaper, planner, foundry practice, pattern making and advance welding, importance of tool design and tool making, principles of designing jigs and Fixtures with their types,
manufacturing operations like blanking piercing, Bending, Drawing and Forming, Machines and applications  and Workshop skills.

Mechanical Technology students are fit to meet increasing demand of modern industries and play an important role for the development of our country by getting employment
 in many industries including private or public sector of various types. They have opportunities in Automobile, Chemical, Communication, Electronics, Defense Aeronautical, Steel Plants,
 Oil exploration and refining, Agriculture, Power Plants, Space research organization, etc.


                                                       Diploma of Associate Engineering  in Auto Diesel 

objective

An auto and diesel technology diploma program will imbue you with the skills and experience you need to be a successful auto mechanic. Hands-on experience is essential as you learn about different auto technologies like hydraulics, electrical systems, welding, air intake, brake repair, and engine building. A typical diploma program for auto and diesel technology will include the following courses:

Engine Fundamentals
Brakes
Electrical Systems
Heating and Air Conditioning
Engine Rebuild
Diesel Electrical Systems
Computer Literacy
Alignment/Steering/Suspension

A diploma program in auto and diesel technology will prepare you for a career as an automotive mechanic. This job necessitates extensive training and experienced due to the highly 
technical nature of the position.A degree program will ensure that you have the necessary skills and show employers that you are qualified for the position.

 